--AntCMS--
Title: AntCMS Readme
Author: The AntCMS Team
Description: The ReadMe file for AntCMS, rendered quickly and simply using AntCMS.
--AntCMS--

# AntCMS

A tiny and fast CMS system for static websites.

## What is AntCMS?

AntCMS is a lightweight CMS system designed for simplicity, speed, and small size. It is a flat-file CMS, meaning it lacks advanced features but benefits from improved speed and reduced complexity.

### How fast is AntCMS?

AntCMS is designed for speed, with a simple backend and caching capabilities that allow it to quickly render and deliver pages to users in milliseconds. This speed is further enhanced by the use of Tailwind CSS in the default theme, which is only 25KB.

Additionally, AntCMS impliments automatic compression page content as well as assets such as JS and CSS files.

### How does it work?

Using AntCMS is simple. First, you need an HTML template with special elements for AntCMS. Then, you can write your content using the popular [markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/) formatting syntax. AntCMS will convert the markdown to HTML, integrate it into the template, and send it to the viewer. This process is already quick, but AntCMS also has caching capabilities that can further improve rendering times.

### Theming with AntCMS

AntCMS stores its themes in the `/Themes` directory. Each theme consists of a simple page layout template. A theme may also have an `/Assets` folder within its directory, which can be accessed directly from the server. Any files stored outside of this folder will be inaccessible.

Here is an example of the default theme folder structure:

- `/Themes`
  - `/Default`
    - `/Templates`
      - `default.html.twig`
      - `nav.html.twig`
    - `/Assets`
      - `tailwind.css`

To change the active theme, simply edit `Config.yaml` and set the `activeTheme` option to match the folder name of your custom theme.

### Configuring AntCMS

AntCMS stores its configuration in the human-readable "yaml" file format. The main configuration files are `Config.yaml`, `Pages.yaml`, and `Users.yaml`. These files will be automatically generated by AntCMS if they do not exist.

#### Options in `Config/Config.yaml`

- `siteInfo:`
  - `siteTitle: AntCMS` - This configuration sets the title of your AntCMS website.
- `forceHttps: true` - Set to 'true' by default, enables HTTPs redirection.
- `activeTheme: Default` - Sets what theme AntCMS should use. should match the folder name of the theme you want to use.
- `cacheMode: auto` - Allows AntCMS to auto-detect if it should use APCu or the file system for it's cache. Also accepts 'none', 'apcu', and 'filesystem'.
- `debug: true`- Enabled or disables debug mode.
- `baseUrl: antcms.example.com/` - Used to set the baseUrl for your AntCMS instance, without the protocol. This will be automatically generated for you, but can be changed if needed.

#### Options in `Config/Pages.yaml`

The `Pages.yaml` file holds a list of your pages. This file is automatically generated if it doesn't exist. At the moment, AntCMS doesn't automatically regenerate this for you, so for new content to appear you will need to delete the `Pages.yaml` file.
The order of which files are stored inside of the `Pages.yaml` file dictates what order they will be displayed in the browser window.
Here's what the `Pages.yaml` file looks like:

- `pageTitle: 'Hello World'` - This defines what the title of the page is in the navbar.
- `fullPagePath: /antcms.example.com/public_html/Content/index.md` - This defines the full path to your page, as PHP would use to access it.
- `functionalPagePath: /index.md` - This is the actual path you would use to access the page from online. Ex: `antcms.example.com/index.php`
- `showInNav: true` - If you'd like to hide a page from the navbar, set this to false and it will be hidden.
